plugins/node/opentelemetry-instrumentation-express/examples/README.md, before:

# Overview

OpenTelemetry Express Instrumentation allows the user to automatically collect trace data and export them to the backend of choice (we can use Zipkin or Jaeger for this example), to give observability to distributed systems.

This is a simple example that demonstrates tracing calls made to Express API. The example
shows key aspects of tracing such as

- Root Span (on Client)
- Child Span (on Client)
- Span Events
- Span Attributes

## Installation

```sh
# from this directory
npm install --workspaces=false
```

Setup [Zipkin Tracing](https://zipkin.io/pages/quickstart.html)
or
Setup [Jaeger Tracing](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/getting-started/#all-in-one)

## Run the Application

### Zipkin

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   $ npm run zipkin:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run zipkin:client
   ```

#### Zipkin UI

`zipkin:server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Zipkin with your browser <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="./images/zipkin.jpg?raw=true"/></p>

### Jaeger

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   $ npm run jaeger:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run jaeger:client
   ```

#### Jaeger UI

`jaeger:server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Jaeger with your browser <http://localhost:16686/trace/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:16686/trace/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="images/jaeger.jpg?raw=true"/></p>

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more information on OpenTelemetry for Node.js, visit: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node>

## LICENSE

Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

add setup script and alternative install

plugins/node/opentelemetry-instrumentation-express/examples/README.md, after:

# Overview

OpenTelemetry Express Instrumentation allows the user to automatically collect trace data and export them to the backend of choice (we can use Zipkin or Jaeger for this example), to give observability to distributed systems.

This is a simple example that demonstrates tracing calls made to Express API. The example
shows key aspects of tracing such as

- Root Span (on Client)
- Child Span (on Client)
- Span Events
- Span Attributes

## Installation

```sh
# from this directory, install all necessary dependencies from the workspace
npm run setup

# OR alternatively, install dependencies from npm as a standalone example app
npm install --workspaces=false
```

Setup [Zipkin Tracing](https://zipkin.io/pages/quickstart.html)
or
Setup [Jaeger Tracing](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/getting-started/#all-in-one)

## Run the Application

### Zipkin

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   $ npm run zipkin:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run zipkin:client
   ```

#### Zipkin UI

`zipkin:server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Zipkin with your browser <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="./images/zipkin.jpg?raw=true"/></p>

### Jaeger

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   $ npm run jaeger:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run jaeger:client
   ```

#### Jaeger UI

`jaeger:server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Jaeger with your browser <http://localhost:16686/trace/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:16686/trace/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="images/jaeger.jpg?raw=true"/></p>

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more information on OpenTelemetry for Node.js, visit: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node>

## LICENSE

Apache License 2.0
