plugins/node/instrumentation-runtime-node/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry Node.js Runtime Instrumentation

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

This module provides automatic metric instrumentation that exposes measurements from the [Performance measurement APIs](https://nodejs.org/api/perf_hooks.html) (i.e. `perf_hooks`).

## Example

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/sdk-node @opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation-runtime-node
```

```js
import { NodeSDK } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-node';
import { PrometheusExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus';
import { PerfHooksInstrumentation } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-runtime-node';

const prometheusExporter = new PrometheusExporter({
  port: 9464,
  startServer: true
});

const sdk = new NodeSDK({
  metricReader: prometheusExporter,
  instrumentations: [new PerfHooksInstrumentation({
    eventLoopUtilizationMeasurementInterval: 5000,
  })],
});

sdk.start()
```

[`NodeSDK`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/sdk-node) is the full OpenTelemetry SDK for Node.js that is a layer of abstraction on top of the `@opentelemetry/sdk-metrics` and `@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-*` packages. By specifying `metricReader`, it will initialize the metrics SDK and creates a `MeterProvider`. [`@opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus) will output metrics collected by registered instrumentation on a `/metrics` endpoint.

Go to [`localhost:9464/metrics`](http://localhost:9464/metrics), and you should see:

```txt
# HELP nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization Event loop utilization
# UNIT nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization 1
# TYPE nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization gauge
nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization 0.010140079547955264
```

> Metrics will only be exported after it has collected two ELU readings (at least approximately `PerfHooksInstrumentationConfig.eventLoopUtilizationMeasurementInterval` milliseconds after initialization). Otherwise, you may see:
>
> ```txt
> # no registered metrics
> ```

### Options

`PerfHooksInstrumentation`'s constructor accepts the following options:

| name | type | unit | default | description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| [`eventLoopUtilizationMeasurementInterval`](./src/types.ts#L25) | `int` | millisecond | `5000` | The approximate number of milliseconds for which to calculate event loop utilization averages. A larger value will result in more accurate averages at the expense of less granular data. Should be set to below the scrape interval of your metrics collector to avoid duplicated data points. |

## Supported Node.js versions

v14.10.0+

<!-- - 14.6.0 - this package uses _private properties_ -->

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-pg
[npm-img]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40opentelemetry%2Finstrumentation-pg.svg

Commit message:

docs(instrumentaiton-runtime-node): clarify that the package only emits metrics

plugins/node/instrumentation-runtime-node/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry Node.js Runtime Metrics Instrumentation

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

This module provides automatic metric instrumentation that exposes measurements from the [Performance measurement APIs](https://nodejs.org/api/perf_hooks.html) (i.e. `perf_hooks`).
While currently it is limited to metrics, it may be modified to produce other signals in the future.

## Example

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/sdk-node @opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation-runtime-node
```

```js
import { NodeSDK } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-node';
import { PrometheusExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus';
import { PerfHooksInstrumentation } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-runtime-node';

const prometheusExporter = new PrometheusExporter({
  port: 9464,
  startServer: true
});

const sdk = new NodeSDK({
  metricReader: prometheusExporter,
  instrumentations: [new PerfHooksInstrumentation({
    eventLoopUtilizationMeasurementInterval: 5000,
  })],
});

sdk.start()
```

[`NodeSDK`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/sdk-node) is the full OpenTelemetry SDK for Node.js that is a layer of abstraction on top of the `@opentelemetry/sdk-metrics` and `@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-*` packages. By specifying `metricReader`, it will initialize the metrics SDK and creates a `MeterProvider`. [`@opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/exporter-prometheus) will output metrics collected by registered instrumentation on a `/metrics` endpoint.

Go to [`localhost:9464/metrics`](http://localhost:9464/metrics), and you should see:

```txt
# HELP nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization Event loop utilization
# UNIT nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization 1
# TYPE nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization gauge
nodejs_performance_event_loop_utilization 0.010140079547955264
```

> Metrics will only be exported after it has collected two ELU readings (at least approximately `PerfHooksInstrumentationConfig.eventLoopUtilizationMeasurementInterval` milliseconds after initialization). Otherwise, you may see:
>
> ```txt
> # no registered metrics
> ```

### Options

`PerfHooksInstrumentation`'s constructor accepts the following options:

| name | type | unit | default | description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| [`eventLoopUtilizationMeasurementInterval`](./src/types.ts#L25) | `int` | millisecond | `5000` | The approximate number of milliseconds for which to calculate event loop utilization averages. A larger value will result in more accurate averages at the expense of less granular data. Should be set to below the scrape interval of your metrics collector to avoid duplicated data points. |

## Supported Node.js versions

v14.10.0+

<!-- - 14.6.0 - this package uses _private properties_ -->

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-pg
[npm-img]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40opentelemetry%2Finstrumentation-pg.svg
