plugins/node/instrumentation-lru-memoizer/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry lru-memorizer Instrumentation for Node.js

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

This module provides automatic instrumentation for the [`lru-memorizer`](https://github.com/jfromaniello/lru-memoizer) module, which may be loaded using the [`@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node) package and is included in the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle.

If total installation size is not constrained, it is recommended to use the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle with [@opentelemetry/sdk-node](`https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/sdk-node`) for the most seamless instrumentation experience.

Compatible with OpenTelemetry JS API and SDK `1.0+`.

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation-lru-memoizer
```

## Supported Versions

- `>=1.3 <3`

## Usage

This instrumentation does not produce any telemetry data. It only bind the caller context to callbacks so downstream operations are recorded with the right context (traceId / parentSpanId / baggage / etc). The `lru-memoizer` package is a dependency for other packages such as [jwks-rsa](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jwks-rsa)

To load a specific plugin, specify it in the registerInstrumentations's configuration:

```js
const { NodeTracerProvider } = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node');
const { LruMemoizerInstrumentation } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation-lru-memoizer');
const { registerInstrumentations } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation');

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider();
provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    new LruMemoizerInstrumentation(),
  ],
})
```

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-lru-memoizer
[npm-img]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40opentelemetry%2Finstrumentation-lru-memoizer.svg

Commit message:

docs(instrumentation-lru-memoizer): document semconv

plugins/node/instrumentation-lru-memoizer/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry lru-memoizer Instrumentation for Node.js

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

This module provides automatic instrumentation for the [`lru-memoizer`](https://github.com/jfromaniello/lru-memoizer) module, which may be loaded using the [`@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node) package and is included in the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle.

If total installation size is not constrained, it is recommended to use the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle with [@opentelemetry/sdk-node](`https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/sdk-node`) for the most seamless instrumentation experience.

Compatible with OpenTelemetry JS API and SDK `1.0+`.

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation-lru-memoizer
```

## Supported Versions

- `>=1.3 <3`

## Usage

This instrumentation does not produce any telemetry data. It only bind the caller context to callbacks so downstream operations are recorded with the right context (traceId / parentSpanId / baggage / etc). The `lru-memoizer` package is a dependency for other packages such as [jwks-rsa](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jwks-rsa)

To load a specific plugin, specify it in the registerInstrumentations's configuration:

```js
const { NodeTracerProvider } = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node');
const { LruMemoizerInstrumentation } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation-lru-memoizer');
const { registerInstrumentations } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation');

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider();
provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    new LruMemoizerInstrumentation(),
  ],
})
```

## Semantic Conventions

This package does not currently generate any attributes from semantic conventions.

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-lru-memoizer
[npm-img]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40opentelemetry%2Finstrumentation-lru-memoizer.svg
