GUIDELINES.md, before:

# Instrumentations Implementation Guide

This document captures general guidelines for implementing instrumentations in NodeJS and browser.

## Types

### Public Types

Public types are meant to be consumed by instrumentation users (OpenTelemetry distribution packages or end users implementing OpenTelemetry in their services). These are mostly instrumentation specific config interface (extending `InstrumentationConfig`) and the transitive types used in the config.

#### File Name

These typescript `interface`s, `type`s, `enum`s and js `const`ants statements SHOULD be placed in a file named `types.ts`. This file SHOULD contain only public types that are needed for instrumentation users.

#### Exporting

All types from `types.ts` file MUST be exported from instrumentation `index.ts` using export statement `export * from './types'`, which guarentee that they publicly available.

#### Breaking Changes

Since these types are publicly exported, a breaking change in this file can cause transpilation issues or require code changes for existing users. Special care and attention should be put when modifiying this file to guarantee backword compatibility or proper documentation of breaking changes.

### Internal Types

All types and constants that instrumentation needs internally to implement the instrumentation logic. This can include extensions to instrumented package interfaces (for example - when adding data to existing objects), symbols for patches, enums etc.

#### File Name

It is sometimes convenient to place these declarations in a dedicated file which can then be imported from various instrumentation files such as `instrumentation.ts`, `utils.ts` or test files.

The file SHOULD be named `internal-types.ts`.

Using this file is optional - when a type is used only in a single file, it is ok to declare it and use it in this file **without exporting it**. When a type is expected to be shared between multiple files, it is encourged to be declared in `internal-types.ts` to prevent circular dependencies.

#### Exporting

This file MUST NOT be exported publicly from instrumentation package, not directly (via `index.ts`) and not transitivly via export of other files.

#### Changes

Since the declarations in this file are not exported in the public instrumentation api, it is allowed to apply any refactors to this file, and they will not be breaking changes to users.

## Dependencies

This section refers to the "dependencies" entry in instrumentation's `package.json` file.

Since instrumentations will install all their dependenceis into the end user `node_modules` application, they should be examined to guarantee only small-size-required packages are added.

### OpenTelemetry SDK packages

Most instrumentations will depend on `@opentelemetry/instrumentation` and `@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions`. If needed, instumentation can also depend on `@opentelemetry/core` for use of handy utils.

Instrumentation SHOULD specify dependency as caret range (`^1.0.0`), with minimum supported version (and not latest version). If a specific feature or bug fix is required for instrumentation to function correctly, it SHOULD specify the minimum version that include this feature.

### Instrumented Package Dependency

Instrumentions SHOULD NOT add a dependency on the package it is instrumenting as it can add large overhead for end users application.

This means that instrumentation code SHOULD NOT `import` anywhere from the instrumented package. e.g. `@opentelemetry/instrumentation-foo` cannot `import 'foo'` as it might fail for applications that installed the instrumentaiton but not the `foo` package itself, which is valid and supported use case for OpenTelemetry distributions and end users.

It is allowed, however, to import `types`  from the instrumented package with the [`import type`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-8.html#type-only-imports-and-export) syntax, as long as this type is not used in public api:

```js
// instrumentation.ts
import type { Bar } from 'foo';
```

Since the instrumented package is installed as dev dependency, types are available during development. Since they are not part of the public api, typescript removes these imports from the build artifacts during transpilation. 

To verify - `npm run compile` and check your `index.js` and `index.d.ts` files in the build directory. These files, and any transitive files improted by them MUST NOT import the instrumented package.

### Adding Types in Public API

Sometimes, instrumented package types are needed in instrumentation's public api. These are mostly found in `types.ts` file on instrumentation config hooks that include data from the package and want to type it for consumers.

To support this usecase, you can choose one of the following options:

1. Some packages do not distribute types. The types are alternatively available in the [Definitely Typed Project](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) as `@types/foo` (for a package named `foo`). Since type package is mostly small in size, instrumentaion MAY add depenendcy on the types package, and then use type-only import `import type from 'foo'` in `types.ts`.

2. Copy the relevant type declarations into the instrumentation. You may choose to copy only a subset of the type that is relevant to the need.

3. Use `any` type, and add a comment to guide users on what type they should expect, with a link to it's definition.

Commit message:

docs: add a section for opentelemetry api to guidelines

GUIDELINES.md, after:

# Instrumentations Implementation Guide

This document captures general guidelines for implementing instrumentations in NodeJS and browser.

## Types

### Public Types

Public types are meant to be consumed by instrumentation users (OpenTelemetry distribution packages or end users implementing OpenTelemetry in their services). These are mostly instrumentation specific config interface (extending `InstrumentationConfig`) and the transitive types used in the config.

#### File Name

These typescript `interface`s, `type`s, `enum`s and js `const`ants statements SHOULD be placed in a file named `types.ts`. This file SHOULD contain only public types that are needed for instrumentation users.

#### Exporting

All types from `types.ts` file MUST be exported from instrumentation `index.ts` using export statement `export * from './types'`, which guarentee that they publicly available.

#### Breaking Changes

Since these types are publicly exported, a breaking change in this file can cause transpilation issues or require code changes for existing users. Special care and attention should be put when modifiying this file to guarantee backword compatibility or proper documentation of breaking changes.

### Internal Types

All types and constants that instrumentation needs internally to implement the instrumentation logic. This can include extensions to instrumented package interfaces (for example - when adding data to existing objects), symbols for patches, enums etc.

#### File Name

It is sometimes convenient to place these declarations in a dedicated file which can then be imported from various instrumentation files such as `instrumentation.ts`, `utils.ts` or test files.

The file SHOULD be named `internal-types.ts`.

Using this file is optional - when a type is used only in a single file, it is ok to declare it and use it in this file **without exporting it**. When a type is expected to be shared between multiple files, it is encourged to be declared in `internal-types.ts` to prevent circular dependencies.

#### Exporting

This file MUST NOT be exported publicly from instrumentation package, not directly (via `index.ts`) and not transitivly via export of other files.

#### Changes

Since the declarations in this file are not exported in the public instrumentation api, it is allowed to apply any refactors to this file, and they will not be breaking changes to users.

## Dependencies

This section refers to the "dependencies" entry in instrumentation's `package.json` file.

Since instrumentations will install all their dependenceis into the end user `node_modules` application, they should be examined to guarantee only small-size-required packages are added.

### OpenTelemetry API

Instrumentation SHOULD NOT add a dependency on `@opentelemetry/api`, as it might install multiple api versions into the user node_modules directory. It SHOULD add an antry in `"peerDependencies"` in `package.json` with the **minimum** api version it requires, as caret range (`^1.0.0`).

Users and distributions need to install a version of `@opentelemetry/api` that is compatible with the instrumentation in order to use it.

### OpenTelemetry Core packages

Most instrumentations will depend on `@opentelemetry/instrumentation` and `@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions`. If needed, instumentation can also depend on `@opentelemetry/core` for use of handy utils.

Instrumentation SHOULD specify dependency as caret range (`^1.0.0`), with minimum supported version (and not latest version). If a specific feature or bug fix is required for instrumentation to function correctly, it SHOULD specify the minimum version that include this feature.

### Instrumented Package Dependency

Instrumentions SHOULD NOT add a dependency on the package it is instrumenting as it can add large overhead for end users application.

This means that instrumentation code SHOULD NOT `import` anywhere from the instrumented package. e.g. `@opentelemetry/instrumentation-foo` cannot `import 'foo'` as it might fail for applications that installed the instrumentaiton but not the `foo` package itself, which is valid and supported use case for OpenTelemetry distributions and end users.

It is allowed, however, to import `types`  from the instrumented package with the [`import type`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-8.html#type-only-imports-and-export) syntax, as long as this type is not used in public api:

```js
// instrumentation.ts
import type { Bar } from 'foo';
```

Since the instrumented package is installed as dev dependency, types are available during development. Since they are not part of the public api, typescript removes these imports from the build artifacts during transpilation. 

To verify - `npm run compile` and check your `index.js` and `index.d.ts` files in the build directory. These files, and any transitive files improted by them MUST NOT import the instrumented package.

### Adding Types in Public API

Sometimes, instrumented package types are needed in instrumentation's public api. These are mostly found in `types.ts` file on instrumentation config hooks that include data from the package and want to type it for consumers.

To support this usecase, you can choose one of the following options:

1. Some packages do not distribute types. The types are alternatively available in the [Definitely Typed Project](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) as `@types/foo` (for a package named `foo`). Since type package is mostly small in size, instrumentaion MAY add depenendcy on the types package, and then use type-only import `import type from 'foo'` in `types.ts`.

2. Copy the relevant type declarations into the instrumentation. You may choose to copy only a subset of the type that is relevant to the need.

3. Use `any` type, and add a comment to guide users on what type they should expect, with a link to it's definition.
