plugins/node/instrumentation-tedious/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry Tedious Instrumentation for Node.js

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

This module provides automatic instrumentation for the [`tedious`](https://github.com/tediousjs/tedious) module, which may be loaded using the [`@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node) package and is included in the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle.

If total installation size is not constrained, it is recommended to use the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle with [@opentelemetry/sdk-node](`https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/sdk-node`) for the most seamless instrumentation experience.

Compatible with OpenTelemetry JS API and SDK `1.0+`.

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation-tedious
```

## Supported Versions

- `>=1.11.0 <=15`

## Usage

OpenTelemetry Tedious Instrumentation allows the user to automatically collect trace data and export them to the backend of choice, to give observability to distributed systems when working with [`tedious`](https://github.com/tediousjs/tedious).

To load a specific plugin, specify it in the registerInstrumentations's configuration:

```js
const { NodeTracerProvider } = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node');
const { TediousInstrumentation } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation-tedious');
const { registerInstrumentations } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation');

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider();
provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    new TediousInstrumentation(),
  ],
})
```

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-tedious
[npm-img]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40opentelemetry%2Finstrumentation-tedious.svg

Commit message:

refactor(instr-tedious): use exported strings for attributes (#2144)
Co-authored-by: Amir Blum <amirgiraffe@gmail.com>

plugins/node/instrumentation-tedious/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry Tedious Instrumentation for Node.js

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

This module provides automatic instrumentation for the [`tedious`](https://github.com/tediousjs/tedious) module, which may be loaded using the [`@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node) package and is included in the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle.

If total installation size is not constrained, it is recommended to use the [`@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node) bundle with [@opentelemetry/sdk-node](`https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/sdk-node`) for the most seamless instrumentation experience.

Compatible with OpenTelemetry JS API and SDK `1.0+`.

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation-tedious
```

## Supported Versions

- `>=1.11.0 <=15`

## Usage

OpenTelemetry Tedious Instrumentation allows the user to automatically collect trace data and export them to the backend of choice, to give observability to distributed systems when working with [`tedious`](https://github.com/tediousjs/tedious).

To load a specific plugin, specify it in the registerInstrumentations's configuration:

```js
const { NodeTracerProvider } = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node');
const { TediousInstrumentation } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation-tedious');
const { registerInstrumentations } = require('@opentelemetry/instrumentation');

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider();
provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    new TediousInstrumentation(),
  ],
})
```

## Semantic Conventions

This package uses `@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions` version `1.22+`, which implements Semantic Convention [Version 1.7.0](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.7.0/semantic_conventions/README.md)

Attributes collected:

| Attribute               | Short Description                                                              |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `db.name`               | This attribute is used to report the name of the database being accessed.      |
| `db.sql.table`          | The name of the primary table that the operation is acting upon.               |
| `db.statement`          | The database statement being executed.                                         |
| `db.system`             | An identifier for the database management system (DBMS) product being used.    |
| `db.user`               | Username for accessing the database.                                           |
| `net.peer.name`         | Remote hostname or similar.                                                    |
| `net.peer.port`         | Remote port number.                                                            |

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-tedious
[npm-img]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40opentelemetry%2Finstrumentation-tedious.svg
