plugins/node/opentelemetry-instrumentation-mysql/examples/README.md, before:

# Overview

OpenTelemetry MySQL Instrumentation allows the user to automatically collect trace data and export them to the backend of choice (we can use Zipkin or Jaeger for this example), to give observability to distributed systems.

This is a modification of the HTTP example that executes multiple parallel requests that interact with a MySQL server backend using the `mysql` npm module. The example displays traces using multiple connection methods.

- Direct Connection Query
- Pool Connection Query
- Cluster Pool Connection Query

## Installation

```sh
# from this directory
npm install
```

Setup [Zipkin Tracing](https://zipkin.io/pages/quickstart.html)
or
Setup [Jaeger Tracing](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/getting-started/#all-in-one)

## Run the Application

### Zipkin

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run zipkin:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run zipkin:client
   ```

#### Zipkin UI

`server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Zipkin with your browser <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="./images/zipkin-ui.png?raw=true"/></p>

### Jaeger

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run jaeger:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run jaeger:client
   ```

#### Jaeger UI

`server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Jaeger with your browser <http://localhost:16686/trace/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:16686/trace/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="images/jaeger-ui.png?raw=true"/></p>

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more information on OpenTelemetry for Node.js, visit: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node>

## LICENSE

Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

feat(mysql): Metrics for mysql (#1220)

plugins/node/opentelemetry-instrumentation-mysql/examples/README.md, after:

# Overview

OpenTelemetry MySQL Instrumentation allows the user to automatically collect trace data and metrics and export them to the backend of choice (we can use Zipkin, Jaeger or Grafana for this example), to give observability to distributed systems.

This is a modification of the HTTP example that executes multiple parallel requests that interact with a MySQL server backend using the `mysql` npm module. The example displays traces using multiple connection methods.

- Direct Connection Query
- Pool Connection Query
- Cluster Pool Connection Query

## supported metrics

- Currently only `db.client.connections.usage` is supported, which denoted the number of idle/used connections.

## Installation

```sh
# from this directory
npm install
```

Setup [Zipkin Tracing](https://zipkin.io/pages/quickstart.html)
or
Setup [Jaeger Tracing](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/getting-started/#all-in-one)

In case you want to see also metrics:

1. Go to `docker` folder
2. Run `docker compose up`. This will set up Zipkin, Jaeger, otel collector, Prometheus and Grafana.
3. To see your metrics, go to `http://localhost:3000/`.

## Run the Application

### Zipkin

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run zipkin:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run zipkin:client
   ```

#### Zipkin UI

`server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Zipkin with your browser <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:9411/zipkin/traces/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="./images/zipkin-ui.png?raw=true"/></p>

### Jaeger

- Run the server

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run jaeger:server
   ```

- Run the client

   ```sh
   # from this directory
   npm run jaeger:client
   ```

#### Jaeger UI

`server` script should output the `traceid` in the terminal (e.g `traceid: 4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6`).
Go to Jaeger with your browser <http://localhost:16686/trace/(your-trace-id)> (e.g <http://localhost:16686/trace/4815c3d576d930189725f1f1d1bdfcc6>)

<p align="center"><img src="images/jaeger-ui.png?raw=true"/></p>

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more information on OpenTelemetry for Node.js, visit: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-trace-node>

## LICENSE

Apache License 2.0
