packages/opentelemetry-sampler-aws-xray/README.md, before:

# AWS X-Ray Remote Sampler

> This component is still in development and has not been released as an npm package. 

component owner: @carolabadeer 

This module provides the remote/centralized sampler for AWS X-Ray. 


## Usage 
```js 
const { AWSXRayRemoteSampler } = require('@opentelemetry/sampler-aws-xray');
const opentelemetry = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-node");
const { Resource } = require("@opentelemetry/resources");
const { BatchSpanProcessor} = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base');
const { OTLPTraceExporter } = require('@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc');
const { AWSXRayPropagator } = require("@opentelemetry/propagator-aws-xray");
const { AWSXRayIdGenerator } = require("@opentelemetry/id-generator-aws-xray");


// Initialize resource, trace exporter, span processor, and ID generator
const _resource = Resource.default().merge(new Resource({
        [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: "remote-sampler-app",
    }));
const _traceExporter = new OTLPTraceExporter();
const _spanProcessor = new BatchSpanProcessor(_traceExporter);
const _tracerConfig = {
    idGenerator: new AWSXRayIdGenerator(),
}

const sdk = new opentelemetry.NodeSDK({
        textMapPropagator: new AWSXRayPropagator(),
        instrumentations: [
            new HttpInstrumentation(),
            new AwsInstrumentation({
                suppressInternalInstrumentation: true
            }),
        ],
        resource: _resource,
        spanProcessor: _spanProcessor,
        traceExporter: _traceExporter,
        // add remote sampler
        sampler: new AWSXRayRemoteSampler(),
    });

    sdk.configureTracerProvider(_tracerConfig, _spanProcessor);

```
For more details on setting up the global tracer provider to send traces to AWS X-Ray, refer to [this documentation](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/js-sdk/trace-manual-instr#setting-up-the-global-tracer).


## Useful links 
- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: https://opentelemetry.io/
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js
- For more in-depth documentation on setting up OpenTelemetry to send traces to AWS X-Ray: https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/javascript-sdk

## License 
Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

feat(opentelemetry-sampler-aws-xray): add lambda support note to readme

packages/opentelemetry-sampler-aws-xray/README.md, after:

# AWS X-Ray Remote Sampler

> This component is still in development and has not been released as an npm package.

component owner: @carolabadeer

This module provides the remote/centralized sampler for AWS X-Ray.

## Usage

```js

const { AWSXRayRemoteSampler } = require('@opentelemetry/sampler-aws-xray');
const opentelemetry = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-node");
const { Resource } = require("@opentelemetry/resources");
const { BatchSpanProcessor} = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base');
const { OTLPTraceExporter } = require('@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc');
const { AWSXRayPropagator } = require("@opentelemetry/propagator-aws-xray");
const { AWSXRayIdGenerator } = require("@opentelemetry/id-generator-aws-xray");


// Initialize resource, trace exporter, span processor, and ID generator
const _resource = Resource.default().merge(new Resource({
        [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: "remote-sampler-app",
    }));
const _traceExporter = new OTLPTraceExporter();
const _spanProcessor = new BatchSpanProcessor(_traceExporter);
const _tracerConfig = {
    // add x-ray remote sampler
    sampler: new AWSXRayRemoteSampler(),
    idGenerator: new AWSXRayIdGenerator(),
}

const sdk = new opentelemetry.NodeSDK({
        textMapPropagator: new AWSXRayPropagator(),
        instrumentations: [
            new HttpInstrumentation(),
            new AwsInstrumentation({
                suppressInternalInstrumentation: true
            }),
        ],
        resource: _resource,
        spanProcessor: _spanProcessor,
        traceExporter: _traceExporter,
    });

    sdk.configureTracerProvider(_tracerConfig, _spanProcessor);

```

For more details on setting up the global tracer provider to send traces to AWS X-Ray, refer to [this documentation](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/js-sdk/trace-manual-instr#setting-up-the-global-tracer).

Please note that AWS Lambda does not support X-Ray remote sampling.

## Useful links

- [More information on OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/)
- [More about OpenTelemetry JavaScript](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js)
- [More in-depth documentation on setting up OpenTelemetry to send traces to AWS X-Ray](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/javascript-sdk)

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE) for more information.
