detectors/node/opentelemetry-resource-detector-container/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry Resource Detector for Container

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

[component owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/.github/component_owners.yml): @abhee11

Resource detector for container id.
Compatible with OpenTelemetry JS API and SDK `1.0+`.

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/resource-detector-container
```

## Usage

```typescript
import { detectResources } from '@opentelemetry/resources';
import { containerDetector } from '@opentelemetry/resource-detector-container'
const resource = await detectResources({
   detectors: [containerDetector],
})

const tracerProvider = new NodeTracerProvider({ resource });
```

## Available detectors

- `containerDetector`: Populates `container.id` for processes running on containers supporting : docker( cgroup v1 or v2 ) or with containerd

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat

Commit message:

chore: update readme for container resource detector
Update README of Container Resource Detector to clarify the source of the data and add Semantic Conventions.

Part Of #2055
Part Of #2025

Signed-off-by: maryliag <marylia.gutierrez@grafana.com>

detectors/node/opentelemetry-resource-detector-container/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry Resource Detector for Container

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

[component owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/.github/component_owners.yml): @abhee11

Resource detector for container id.
Compatible with OpenTelemetry JS API and SDK `1.0+`.

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/resource-detector-container
```

## Usage

```typescript
import { detectResources } from '@opentelemetry/resources';
import { containerDetector } from '@opentelemetry/resource-detector-container'
const resource = await detectResources({
   detectors: [containerDetector],
})

const tracerProvider = new NodeTracerProvider({ resource });
```

## Available detectors & Semantic Conventions

This package uses `@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions` version `1.22+`, which implements Semantic Convention [Version 1.7.0](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.7.0/semantic_conventions/README.md)

### ContainerDetector

Populates `container.id` for processes running on containers supporting : docker( cgroup v1 or v2 ) or with containerd

| Resource Attribute  |  Description                                                    | Notes               |
|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------| ------------------- |
| container.id        | Value parsed from file `/proc/self/cgroup` (cgroup v1). If it doesn't exist, parse the value from file `/proc/self/mountinfo` (cgroup v2)| Key: `SEMRESATTRS_CONTAINER_ID` |

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
